have you ever wasted precious minutes
and hours in your day trying to find
something in google ads you were there
last time but for some reason today you
just can't find where you need to go so
you're clicking different buttons but
you're just getting nowhere to make sure
that you don't waste time when you're
optimizing your google ads campaigns you
need to understand the layout of google
ads but more importantly you need to
know how you can navigate easily to the
most important sections of the google
ads dashboard in this video i'm going to
explain to you the layout of the google
ads dashboard and once you actually know
this layer it's very very easy and
simple to navigate every time you're in
google ads secondly i'm going to show
you how you can quickly navigate to
where you need to be in google ads and
then finally i want to give you some pro
tips and how you can drastically reduce
the amount of time that you spend on
your google ads optimizations my name is
aaron young and i'm your 15 000 google
ads master this is how your google ads
dashboard will look when you first enter
into google ads now this is pretty much
the way that the google ads dashbook has
looked since 2017. in 2017 this is when
google ads did a major update of its
google ads dashboard and since then
while there has seen some different
tweaks and different upgrades the
dashboard itself has stayed fairly much
the same since 2017. to make optimizing
google ads campaigns easier you need to
firstly understand the main layout of
google ads so what i want you to look at
here is there's actually three columns
as you go across there's this main
column and then from here there's a sub
column and then this is what we call our
main optimization column or dashboard so
let's start over from the left now this
first column the one that's furthest to
the left is this is where you actually
go through and select your major
campaigns that you want to optimize so
if you click on these three little
buttons up here you can actually filter
this so that you're only seeing your
campaigns which are currently enabled or
you can actually click through and
actually see all the ones which have
removed that you're not using anymore
and the other thing that you can
actually do is you can actually view by
campaign types so you are actually able
to filter it down here by the individual
campaigns but also your campaign types
so from here if we were to select search
campaigns in this middle navigation
column or the sub navigation column it's
showing us all the campaigns but it's
only going to be showing us the search
campaigns the same as if we go to
display it's showing us the campaigns
but only those display and then finally
for shopping and the same would be true
that if you had any local campaigns or
any other type of campaigns running that
you would actually see these core
headings through here but for this
campaign we're only running search
display and shopping and that's why
we're only seeing these three options so
this first one or the left the easiest
way to think about it is that's your
main menu bar or your main navigation
bar and then this second one in the
middle here is this is your subheading
or your sub navigation bar so once again
if you go to search campaigns all of
this data in here is only going to
relate to your search campaigns or if
you want to go to a specific campaign
all this data in here will actually only
relate to this specific campaign so one
of the things you do need to note there
is when we've got all of the search
campaigns it does show a list of all of
the campaigns but if we were to select
one of these individual campaigns that
campaigns is changed to an ad group
because we've filtered it out saying we
only want to see data around this
navigation so one of the biggest issues
that i have found is that sometimes
people can't find things and what they
don't realize is if they go over to this
main navigation heading is that they've
actually selected the wrong type of
campaign or they've selected an
individual campaign and that's why they
can't see the rest of the data the other
thing that you will note is that
sometimes in google ads you'll actually
have this closed you can see here this
with this little arrow so if you ever
have an issue where you can't find a
campaign on ad group what you need to do
is just go over to the main navigation
click on the all campaigns and then that
will allow you to see all of your
different campaigns and ad groups that
you've currently got in google ads so
the first thing that you need to know
about the google ads layout is you're
looking at as three columns so firstly
there's our main navigation column
there's our sub navigation column and
then the dominant column is where you're
actually seeing all of the google ads
data and you're seeing your keywords
you're seeing your ad copy so this is
where you're actually going through and
making those optimizations and edits in
your campaign so there's those three
columns running across the page the
other thing that you need to be aware of
is that there is actually a top menu bar
now as we're looking at this top menu
bar these actually relate to your whole
account if you're running an mcc or a
multi-client account you'll actually be
able to navigate to all of your
different other campaigns just through
this drop down button when we're moving
across to here you see some different
sections now we'll come back to the
search bar but through here you do have
some built-in reporting now with the
reporting i actually find this a really
powerful little menu but what's
important to remember here is that this
reporting is giving you just that it's
giving you data and reporting it's
actually not where you go to make any
changes so you're not going to be going
here to do any optimizations in this
reporting menu it's purely giving you
some different reporting options now i'm
not going to be going through all of
these different options you can go
through and have a look at those but i
will show you one example of a report
that i will run a lot of the time and
that's if we're doing a call campaign we
can actually go through go to extensions
and you can see your core details or if
you're running some site links you can
see your individual site links and let's
just go into site links and this starts
to give us some data on the individual
site links and what you can actually do
in here if you want to see some extra
data so you can see in here we're only
seeing at the moment the clicks the
impressions the click-through ratio and
the cpc if we wanted to go through and
actually add in some conversion data we
can add that in here and you can see
through here the conversion data is now
added into that report so as the name
suggests this reporting data is very
much where you're going to be able to
get some different reports in and around
your google ads
now the other main core heading that you
want to be looking at is this is your
tools and setting so once again in the
tools and settings this isn't where
we're going to be undertaking some
different optimizations this is all
around core information about your
account so in here with the planning
this is where you've got things like
your keyword planner in your shared
library this is things where you have
you know some advanced skills like if
you've got shared budgets and audience
managers if you're starting out in
google ads you probably won't really
want use this section the same too with
bulk actions if you ever did want to add
in some different rules and scripts this
is where you see those from here if you
want to go into your measurements so
this is where you can actually quickly
go through and navigate to your
conversion so this is probably an action
you will use even as a beginner so from
there you go in tools and settings and
then you can just bring out your
conversion data from there and then
these last two obviously this first one
the setup it goes through into the round
about your different access so if you
wanted to give access to a new party
this is where you would do that and then
finally in this billing section is where
you'd go to things like changing your
credit card details seeing your current
invoices and also seeing if there's any
extra payments that you need to make at
the moment so as a wrap up for your
navigation this top bar is where you're
more going to general information so
you're not looking at doing
optimizations in this top bar but for
this core section of google ads the
important thing to remember is that
you've got those three columns across
the page the two navigations so the main
navigation sub navigation and then this
main dashboard where you actually go and
do all the individual optimizations in
google ads i hope you're enjoying the
teaching so far so that i can continue
to produce these google ads teaching
videos can you please do me a favor and
not only like this video but subscribe
to my channel thank you so much let's
get to the next point now the second
port that we want to discuss about the
google ads dashboard is all about
navigation and what i want to show you
here is how you can actually quickly get
to the different parts of google that
you need to get to in order to update
your ad copy or check your keywords and
there's two main ways that you can go
about it first you can go through these
navigation columns that we spoke to so
if you wanted to go through and check on
an individual search campaign you would
go to search campaigns and then you can
either go to the individual search
campaign that you want to hear or if you
want to see how all of your search
campaigns are doing you can do this in
this section so from here you can see
this overview section now remember when
i said at the start of the video that
google ads did a core update in 2017
and this was the main update that they
did is they added in this overview
section which is a really handy section
so what you need to look at from here as
well is if you want to see how your
search campaigns are performing you can
actually go through and change these so
you can see i want to see what my cost
is we want to see our conversion value
cost which is like a row ass and then we
also want to see our conversion rate now
the other thing that what you can do in
here which is really really powerful can
actually compare it to the previous
period in the previous year and when you
do that it gives you a really quick
update on how your campaign is
performing versus the previous period so
in here we've got the last 14 days so
obviously this is comparing january and
february through to those 14 days in
january and the thing that i like about
this feature is it very very quickly
lets me know how my search campaigns are
going at a quick glance so i can go in
here and i can see that over the last 14
days we've seen our rise has increased
our conversion rate has increased and
our conversion values increase so for a
very quick glance we know how that is
performing but then what we can also do
is if you wanted to see that on
individual campaigns you can click on
those campaigns and this will
automatically bring the data up for all
of those individual campaigns so we can
look through and actually go through and
see which of the campaigns that we need
to spend some more time on now the other
thing to note from here is if you want
to you can actually go into the
individual ad group if we want to go
through and optimize some different ad
groups we can just go through and you're
going in through campaign and then ad
groups and you can see through here this
is where you would actually go through
and see do we want to see how our ads
are performing how our extensions are
performing you know we can review our
landing pages and then our keywords so
obviously i'm not going to go through
each individual line because it is quite
self-explanatory the main thing that i
want to show you through here is that
it's all about using this navigation
plane so you're going search campaigns
or shopping campaigns and then you can
go into the individual campaigns and the
individual ad groups so the other option
for navigation that i wanted to show you
is let's just say that you got into
google ads and you know that you want to
go straight away and review your
keywords you can go and use this search
function and search keywords and from
here you could go today i want to go see
my search keywords and this will
straight away bring you to all of your
keywords now the other thing that you
could you would have seen there is that
when you typed in keywords if you wanted
to you could actually go into your
negative keywords so the big thing to
note here is that when you type in a
search function it can take you to all
the different things that relate to
keywords so it could be your keyword
planner or it could even be you that you
wanted to go and see your auction
insights the same thing true if we were
to write ads it automatically brings up
everything in regards to ads or ad
groups ad scheduling so i will sometimes
use this if i know that i'm going into
google ads to complete a specific action
what you can do is just use this search
function type in what you want to do and
then that will give you those options so
that's also the second way that you can
go and navigate in google ads so the
first option is to use these columns
that we spoke about and the second
option is to use this search function
hey also to help you through google ads
optimizations i want to give you access
to my google ads optimization checklist
now this is a checklist that's going to
help you with your google ads
optimizations versus it shows you what
you need to optimize in google ads every
week every month and every 90 days let's
get back to the teaching now the last
thing i wanted to share with you today
on how you can go about and navigate in
google ads is i want to give you some
tips to drastically use the time that
you're spending in google ads and the
three tips i want to talk about is
columns segments and filters so firstly
with columns now you can see this
through in here where we go to columns
is that when you're in google ads it'll
give you some set columns but sometimes
these columns actually won't be with the
data that you need to see so let's just
say that you're in a search campaign and
you're on keywords and you want to
actually check your keyword quality
score but if google ads actually hasn't
put that column in for you can quite
easily check that by just going to
columns modify columns and then when
you're in there you can use this search
function and we want to see about
quality score so once again as soon as
we started typing quality score we can
see that and we can add quality score in
there now the other thing that we can
actually do as well you can actually
drop and drag these to actually have
them in the order that you like to see
them obviously everyone has their
different things that i want to look at
but you can actually see there is so
much data that you can actually see here
in google ads so there's all the
conversion data there's these bid
simulators where you can actually see
how much extra you would need to pay to
in order to get a certain amount of
clicks and the good thing with all of
these different attributes is if you see
here if you just do a quick rollover
google actually has built in and given
you a description of what each of these
metrics actually mean so i'm not going
to go through and explain all of these
because as you can see it actually gives
you this data specifically for what you
want to look at so what i would
recommend is that when you're actually
going through this let's have a look at
the different columns that you can add
and then you'll actually get to decide
what data is actually important for you
and what you actually want to see in
there now the second thing i wanted to
talk about is segments now i find
segments really really powerful when
you're reviewing your campaigns and also
your ad groups and what i would
generally use if you go to segment in
here you can actually segment it by a
conversion action and this is the main
one that i use and i find this to be a
really great tip and let me show you the
difference here so for example if we
were in our search campaigns and we
wanted to see the overview we can
actually see here the cost we can see
the conversion value cost we can see a
conversion rate you know we can go in
and put in a a cpc we can actually go in
and put our conversions but that's for
the whole search campaign and then if we
were to bring this down in here it would
bring up one of those individual
campaigns but if we go into this
campaign sections and then add that
segment and we can actually even do it
for all campaigns so that way you're not
just doing it for your search you can do
it for your shopping and every campaign
that you're running and when you go
segment conversions we are actually now
starting to see that the conversion data
is actually dropping down from here so
we can actually go through and quickly
see that we can rank it by cost so we're
seeing our most expensive ones and we
can actually see that yes we're spending
the most money in this campaign and it's
actually also providing us the highest
level of conversion data and when we go
into this cost per conversion data we
can really quickly see which campaigns
need more work because we've added in
that extra segment so you'll find
segments to be a really really powerful
tool that you can use to very very
quickly see which campaigns you need to
spend extra work on and then the last
thing i wanted to talk about was filters
now i find filters very very important
especially when you're dealing with
different keywords and ad copies so i'm
just going to give you an example here
of how i use some different filters so
with our search terms now in this
campaign they run kids earmuffs but they
all started to show for fluffy earmuffs
and that had to do with google defining
fluffy and earmuffs as the same theme so
what you can actually do is that we
added in a filter and we're going to go
search terms input search terms and then
we can actually write in here we want to
see
any search terms which contain the word
fluffy and as you can see through here
we've already gone through and excluded
these but this is a really quick
powerful tool that you can actually
filter out some different keywords that
you want to see and the same is also
true for ads if you wanted to add a
filter let's just say you're running a
campaign at the moment and you have a
discount on it you can actually go to
the ad text and let's just say that you
had a limited offer you could then
actually type in limited and then when
you click apply that would show all of
the ad copies that actually have that
word limited in it and the other thing
that you can do with your filtering here
is i've actually added in a filter
called add text contains original now
the reason for why i've done this is
that some of our ad copies include the
call out action by the original baby
earmuffs obviously because this product
was the first one to market and because
we've filtered that what we can actually
do is we can actually see from here
these total filtered ads that's letting
us know the conversion rate of the ads
that include the word original versus
the total account so this is a really
really quick way that you can actually
start to actually get some data on how
some extra ad copies are working and you
could also do this for keywords but
that's why i love that filtering tool is
because it allows me to quickly go down
to the bottom of the table and see how
my filtered ads or filtered keywords is
performing versus the rest of the
account so that does give you some
really powerful information to know how
your filter is working versus other
keywords and ad copies thank you so much
for joining me on this teaching video i
hope that quick tutorial on how to
actually use the google ads dashboard
will save you a lot of time the next
time that you're in google ads also
before you go make sure you grab a copy
of my google ads optimization checklist
you can grab it by following the link in
the description below and this is that
checklist that will show you what you
need to optimize in google ads every
week every month and every 90 days and
finally if you want to watch some extra
videos on how you can best optimize your
google ads accounts why don't you go
through and check out this playlist
where i've included all of my google ads
optimization videos thank you again and
see you soon